# Mecha-QA

## Introduction

Mecha-QA is a knowledge graph question-answering dataset in the field of mechanical engineering, which includes **[a knowledge graph of the mechanical domain](./kg.txt)** and corresponding **question-answering data ([train](./QA/train.jsonl), [test](./QA/test.jsonl) and [test-3d](./QA/test_3d.jsonl))**.It is noteworthy that the [test-3d](./QA/test_3d.jsonl) part differs from the other two parts of the data. The former pertains to the field of additive manufacturing, which is a sub-domain of mechanical manufacturing, while the latter concerns traditional mechanical manufacturing. This distinction is made to enable a more comprehensive evaluation of the model's performance. Mecha-QA is constructed from the Mechanical Manufacturing Handbook (ISBN: 7-5381-3405-02) as the data source, containing knowledge related to material properties, manufacturing processes, and other relevant information in the domain of mechanical manufacturing.

## Knowledge Graph

We provide a knowledge graph in `kg.txt` located in the directory, consisting of a total of 1761 triplets, with each line representing one knowledge triple. The schema is `[subject, relation, object]`.

For example, `['镍铬钢', '泊松比μ', '2.1']` shows that “镍铬钢的泊松比为2.1”。

Besides we provide a knowledge graph in `kg_3d.txt` located in the directory, consisting of a total of 838 triplets, with each line representing one knowledge triple. The schema is `[subject, relation, object]`. The questions in [test-3d](./QA/test_3d.jsonl) are all based on this kg.

## QA Data

The QA-pairs are generated by ChatGPT whose prompt is consisting of a few knowledge triples. We split the qa-pairs into 2 `jsonl` files, and each line of the files is a `qa-pair`. The qa-pair has 4 keys: `问题`, `答案`, `实体`, `对应的三元组` representing the question, answer, entity in the question and the key triples to answer the question, respectively.